Tailored Exports documentation (#971)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/imports-exports/tailored-export.md

---
id: tailored-export
themes: import-export-data
title: "Explore new possibilities with a tailored export"
popular: false
ee-only: true
related: exports, monitor-jobs, access-rights-on-imports-exports
---

# Overview

This feature consists in a new export profile, available only for our Enterprise Edition or Growth Edition users.

> It helps you to export your product information in flat files, in the ways you want.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It helps you to export your product information in flat files, following the structure you want.
```

For instance, let's assume your retailers or distributors need the same product information from you in flat file, but they both want different structures:  
* Retailer A wants an export with columns named: "Identifier", "Product Name", "Description" and "Weight (cm)".
* Retailer B wants an export with columns named: "Name in french", "Name in english", "Description 1", "ID" and "Weight (mm)".  

> It means you need to export your information thanks to the classic product export, and to manually modify your spreadsheet to reorder the columns, change their name, convert the measurement and other low value-added tasks.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, you had to export your information thanks to the classic product export, and manually modify your spreadsheet to reorder the columns, change their name, convert the measurement and other low value-added tasks.  
```

Now you can easily create different Tailored Export profiles to match the requirements of most of your retailers or distributors!

# Create a tailored product export profile

> To create a product export:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a tailored product export:
```

1. Go to `Exports`
1. Click on `Create export profile`

> 1. Type a unique export code and a label, then select the job `Tailored product export` or `Tailored product model export`. You can select either CSV or XLSX for each job.

Reviewer: Not sure you should talk about those export profiles before they exists

![Create a new product export profile](../img/TailoredExport_Create-export-profile.png)
1. Save your new export profile

> # Edit a tailored product export profile

Reviewer: as this part is not different from other export profile, I find it confusing: it looks like there is something different that the user need to know.

Author: It's useful to new users, so we prefer to keep it like this

Once you've created your tailored export profile, or if you want to edit an existing tailored product export profile:
1. Go to `Exports`
1. Click on the tailored export profile you want to edit
1. Click on `Edit` located in the top right corner of the screen  

## Discover the different tabs of this profile

> As in all export profiles, the tailored export profile displays different tabs where you can configure it. Here's the list of the different tabs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tailored export profile is exactly like a regular product and product export profile. The only change is that you now have a new tab to configure the structure of your flat file.
```

> * `Properties`: Define the label of your export profile

Author: Invalid suggestion, exactly the same as mine

> * `Properties`: Define the label of your export profile
> * `Permissions`: Set permissions to allow specific user groups to execute or edit your export profile (Enterprise Edition only).
> * `Global settings`: Define the max number of lines per file you want, the field delimiter (CSV format only) and the field enclosure character (CSV format only).
> * `Product selection`: Use the provided filters to decide which products will be exported (see [Focus on "Product selection" section](tailored-export.html#focus-on-product-selection-section)").
> * `Export structure`: Build your export structure (see [Focus on "Export structure" section](tailored-export.html#focus-on-export-structure)").
> * `History`: Display the modifications made by any user on your export profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: We decided to keep ths with Camille, so that our new users are still onboarded in the good way, with an explaination for every tab.

> ### Focus on 'Product selection' section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Focus on the 'Product selection' tab
```

In this tab, you can select the products which will be exported.
A certain number of filters are available, helping you to refine your product selection, such as family, category, status, completeness, data quality or even insert a list of identifiers. You can also add new attributes to use them to filter your products.

::: tips
Note that you can now select any category from any category tree available in your PIM, including categories that aren't linked to a channel.
:::

![Select multiple category trees](../img/TailoredExport_Select-categories.png)

> ### Focus on 'Export structure'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Focus on the 'Export structure' tab
```

> In this tab, you can build the structure of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tab, you can build the structure of your file.
```

> You need to create the columns of your file, name them & link them to your PIM attributes in order for your export profile to be ready to be launched.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to create the columns of your file, name them & link them to your PIM attributes, system properties or Association types in order for your export profile to be ready to be launched.
```

> You need to create the columns of your file, name them & link them to your PIM attributes, system properties or Association types in order for your export profile to be ready to be launched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to define the columns of your flat file, name them & link them to your PIM attributes, system properties or Association types in order for your export profile to be ready to be launched.
```

To do so, please follow the steps below:
1.  Add a first column by clicking on `Add first column`.
![Add first column](../img/TailoredExport_Add-first-column.png)  
::: tips

> If you want to add columns in bulk from an Excel file, you can copy all the columns in your Excel and paste them in the last column created, so that it creates automatically all your columns in your export.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to add columns in bulk from an Excel file, you can copy all the columns header in your Excel and paste them in the last column created, so that it creates automatically all your columns in your export.
```

> If you want to add columns in bulk from an Excel file, you can copy all the columns header in your Excel and paste them in the last column created, so that it creates automatically all your columns in your export.

Reviewer: That would be awesome to have a small gif/video showing this

Author: Will do this, thanks for the idea!

Author: Done!

:::
2.  Once your first column has been added, you can enter their name in the field created.

> ![Add first column](../img/TailoredExport_Column-headers.png)

Reviewer: `Add first column` are you sure about this?

> 3.  Then, you need to add a source for each column, which means selecting an attribute or a system property. To do that, please select the column you want, then in the right panel, click on `Add source` and select any item from the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.  Then, you need to add a source for each column, which means selecting an attribute, a system property or an Association type. To do that, please select the column you want, then in the right panel, click on `Add source` and select any item from the list.
```

> 3.  Then, you need to add a source for each column, which means selecting an attribute, a system property or an Association type. To do that, please select the column you want, then in the right panel, click on `Add source` and select any item from the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Then, you need to add at least one source of data for each column, which means selecting an attribute, a system property or an association type. To do that, please select the column you want, then in the right panel, click on `Add source` and select any item from the list.
```

::: tips
System properties are no longer set by default. Select only the relevant system properties you need. Choosing from: "Enabled", "Category", "Family", "Family variant", "Groups", "Parent" and your association types.
:::

> 4. Once you've added a source, different options are available depending on the attribute you selected. Most of the time, if  your attribute is localisable and/or scopable, you may have to select from which channel and/or from which locale you want the data to be exported. But for some attributes, more options are available, like a choice between the code or the label of the attributes, or the separator character to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once you've added a source, different options are available depending on the attribute you selected. Most of the time, if  your attribute is localisable and/or scopable, you may have to select from which channel and/or from which locale you want the data to be exported. But for some attributes, more options are available, like a choice between the code or the label of the attribute option, or the collection separator to use.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Once you've added a source, different options are available depending on the attribute you selected. Most of the time, if your attribute has a value per locale or per channel, you may have to select from which channel and/or from which locale you want the data to be exported. But for some attributes, more options are available. For instance, you can choose between exporting the code or the label of the attribute option, and which separator (',', ';', '|') you want when applicable.
```

![Add a source](../img/TailoredExport_Add-source.gif)
5.  Once you're done, click on `Save` in the top right corner.
6.  You can now launch your export profile by cliking on `Export`.

::: warning
Limitations have been set for each Tailored Export profile:
* You can add up to 1000 columns

> * Text fields are limited to 250 characters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Text fields are limited to 255 characters
```

> * You can add up to 4 sources in a same column

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can add up to 4 sources in a single column
```

> :::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:::
We hope that you enjoy working with Tailored Export 101. A more advanced version will be released in the coming months, stay tuned!
```

    ::: info
    System properties are not set by default. Select only the system properties you need. You can choose: "Enabled", "Category", "Family", "Family variant", "Groups", "Parent" and your association types.
    :::
1. Once you've added a source, different options are available depending on the attribute you selected. Most of the time, if your attribute has a value per locale or per channel, you may have to select from which channel and/or from which locale you want the data to be exported. But for some attributes, more options are available. For instance, you can choose between exporting the code or the label of the attribute option, and which separator (',', ';', '|') you want when applicable.
![Add a source](../img/TailoredExport_Add-source.gif)
1.  Once you're done, click on `Save` in the top right corner.
1.  You can now launch your export profile by cliking on `Export`.

::: warning
Limitations have been set for each Tailored Export profile:
* Column headers must be unique
* You can add up to 1,000 columns
* You can add up to 4 sources in a single column
* Text fields are limited to 255 characters
:::

> # Discover all transformations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Discover operations
```

> When adding sources to your columns, you can add different transformations. For now are available:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use operations to share the most meaningful values for your stakeholders by adapting your PIM values in different ways when exporting them. 

Here are the different types of operations you can add when defining your sources:
```

> * `Boolean replacement`: Replace the default values of the boolean attribute (for now only available for the `Enabled` system property)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `Boolean replacement`: Replace the default values of the boolean attribute with your own value. For now, this is only available for the `Enabled` system property
```

> * `Concatenate`: Concatenate different sources by adding up to 4 of them per column

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `Concatenate`: Concatenate different sources by displaying up to 4 of them per column
```

> * `Select labels`: Export the labels of your sources instead of codes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `Select labels`: Export the labels of your sources instead of the codes
```
